weekod-nextjs/BUILD_FIXES.md, before:

# Build Fixes Applied

## Critical Errors Fixed ✅

### 1. BlogSearch Component - Unescaped Quotes
**Error**: `"` can be escaped with `&quot;`, `&ldquo;`, `&#34;`, `&rdquo;`
**Fix**: Changed `"` to `&ldquo;` and `&rdquo;` in the search placeholder text

### 2. BlogPage Component - Missing useEffect Dependencies
**Error**: React Hook useEffect has a missing dependency: 'fetchBlogData'
**Fix**: 
- Added `useCallback` import
- Wrapped `fetchBlogData` in `useCallback` with proper dependencies
- Updated useEffect to depend on `fetchBlogData`

### 3. Orb Component - Missing useEffect Dependencies
**Error**: React Hook useEffect has missing dependencies: 'frag' and 'vert'
**Fix**: Added `frag` and `vert` to the useEffect dependency array

### 4. Next.js 15 API Route Parameter Types
**Error**: Type "{ params: { slug: string; }; }" is not a valid type for the function's second argument
**Fix**: Updated API route parameter types for Next.js 15 compatibility
- Changed `{ params: { slug: string } }` to `{ params: Promise<{ slug: string }> }`
- Added `await` when accessing params: `const { slug } = await params;`
- Applied to all HTTP methods (GET, PUT, DELETE) in `/api/blog/posts/[slug]/route.ts`

### 5. Next.js 15 Page Component Parameter Types
**Error**: Type 'BlogPostPageProps' does not satisfy the constraint 'PageProps'
**Fix**: Updated page component parameter types for Next.js 15 compatibility
- Changed `params: { slug: string }` to `params: Promise<{ slug: string }>`
- Updated `generateMetadata` function to await params
- Updated main page component to await params
- Applied to `/app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx`

### 6. Next.js Metadata Type Compatibility
**Error**: Object literal may only specify known properties, and 'publishedTime' does not exist in type 'Metadata'
**Fix**: Removed invalid metadata properties from main metadata object
- Removed `publishedTime` and `modifiedTime` from root metadata (these are OpenGraph-specific)
- Kept `publishedTime` and `modifiedTime` in `openGraph` section where they belong
- Applied to `/app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx` generateMetadata function

### 7. PageType and Component Mapping Mismatch
**Error**: Property 'blog' does not exist on type pageComponents object
**Fix**: Removed 'blog' from PageType since blog uses separate routing
- Blog functionality is handled by `/app/blog/page.tsx` and `/app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx`
- Main app page components only handle single-page app navigation
- Updated `PageType` in `/src/types/index.ts` to exclude 'blog'

## ESLint Configuration Updated ✅

### Updated `.eslintrc.json`
- Changed `@next/next/no-img-element` from error to warning
- Changed `react-hooks/exhaustive-deps` from error to warning
- Kept `react/no-unescaped-entities` as error (critical for build)

### Updated `next.config.js`
- Added ESLint configuration to handle warnings properly
- Maintained strict error checking for critical issues

## Remaining Warnings (Non-blocking) ⚠️

These are now warnings and won't block the build:

1. **Image Optimization Warnings**: Multiple components using `<img>` instead of `<Image />`
   - Components: Footer, Navigation, NavigationRouter, AboutPage, BlogPostPage, PortfolioPage, ProcessPage, ServicesPage, BlogAuthorBio, BlogCard, OptimizedImage
   - **Impact**: Performance optimization opportunity
   - **Action**: Can be addressed in future optimization phase

## Build Status
✅ **Build should now complete successfully**
✅ **All critical errors resolved**
✅ **Google Search Console verification file added**
✅ **Google Analytics integration ready**

## Next Steps After Successful Build

1. **Verify deployment** at https://www.weekod.in/
2. **Test Google Search Console verification**
3. **Add Google Analytics Measurement ID** to environment variables
4. **Initialize blog database** using `/api/blog/init` endpoint
5. **Test blog functionality** on production

## Performance Optimization Opportunities

### Future Image Optimization
Consider replacing `<img>` tags with Next.js `<Image />` component in:
- Navigation components (logo)
- Blog components (featured images, author avatars)
- Portfolio and service pages
- Footer component

### Benefits of Next.js Image Component
- Automatic image optimization
- Lazy loading
- Responsive image sizing
- Better Core Web Vitals scores
- Reduced bandwidth usage

## Database Initialization

After successful deployment, initialize the blog database:

```bash
# Development
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/blog/init

# Production
curl -X POST https://www.weekod.in/api/blog/init
```

This will populate the database with sample blog posts and categories for testing.

Commit message:

Fixed type/value import conflict

weekod-nextjs/BUILD_FIXES.md, after:

# Build Fixes Applied

## Critical Errors Fixed ✅

### 1. BlogSearch Component - Unescaped Quotes
**Error**: `"` can be escaped with `&quot;`, `&ldquo;`, `&#34;`, `&rdquo;`
**Fix**: Changed `"` to `&ldquo;` and `&rdquo;` in the search placeholder text

### 2. BlogPage Component - Missing useEffect Dependencies
**Error**: React Hook useEffect has a missing dependency: 'fetchBlogData'
**Fix**: 
- Added `useCallback` import
- Wrapped `fetchBlogData` in `useCallback` with proper dependencies
- Updated useEffect to depend on `fetchBlogData`

### 3. Orb Component - Missing useEffect Dependencies
**Error**: React Hook useEffect has missing dependencies: 'frag' and 'vert'
**Fix**: Added `frag` and `vert` to the useEffect dependency array

### 4. Next.js 15 API Route Parameter Types
**Error**: Type "{ params: { slug: string; }; }" is not a valid type for the function's second argument
**Fix**: Updated API route parameter types for Next.js 15 compatibility
- Changed `{ params: { slug: string } }` to `{ params: Promise<{ slug: string }> }`
- Added `await` when accessing params: `const { slug } = await params;`
- Applied to all HTTP methods (GET, PUT, DELETE) in `/api/blog/posts/[slug]/route.ts`

### 5. Next.js 15 Page Component Parameter Types
**Error**: Type 'BlogPostPageProps' does not satisfy the constraint 'PageProps'
**Fix**: Updated page component parameter types for Next.js 15 compatibility
- Changed `params: { slug: string }` to `params: Promise<{ slug: string }>`
- Updated `generateMetadata` function to await params
- Updated main page component to await params
- Applied to `/app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx`

### 6. Next.js Metadata Type Compatibility
**Error**: Object literal may only specify known properties, and 'publishedTime' does not exist in type 'Metadata'
**Fix**: Removed invalid metadata properties from main metadata object
- Removed `publishedTime` and `modifiedTime` from root metadata (these are OpenGraph-specific)
- Kept `publishedTime` and `modifiedTime` in `openGraph` section where they belong
- Applied to `/app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx` generateMetadata function

### 7. PageType and Component Mapping Mismatch
**Error**: Property 'blog' does not exist on type pageComponents object
**Fix**: Removed 'blog' from PageType since blog uses separate routing
- Blog functionality is handled by `/app/blog/page.tsx` and `/app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx`
- Main app page components only handle single-page app navigation
- Updated `PageType` in `/src/types/index.ts` to exclude 'blog'

### 8. Date-fns Import Type Conflict
**Error**: 'format' cannot be used as a value because it was exported using 'export type'
**Fix**: Changed import strategy to avoid type/value conflicts
- Changed from `import { format } from 'date-fns'` to `import * as dateFns from 'date-fns'`
- Updated usage from `format()` to `dateFns.format()`
- Applied to `/src/components/pages/BlogPostPage.tsx`

## ESLint Configuration Updated ✅

### Updated `.eslintrc.json`
- Changed `@next/next/no-img-element` from error to warning
- Changed `react-hooks/exhaustive-deps` from error to warning
- Kept `react/no-unescaped-entities` as error (critical for build)

### Updated `next.config.js`
- Added ESLint configuration to handle warnings properly
- Maintained strict error checking for critical issues

## Remaining Warnings (Non-blocking) ⚠️

These are now warnings and won't block the build:

1. **Image Optimization Warnings**: Multiple components using `<img>` instead of `<Image />`
   - Components: Footer, Navigation, NavigationRouter, AboutPage, BlogPostPage, PortfolioPage, ProcessPage, ServicesPage, BlogAuthorBio, BlogCard, OptimizedImage
   - **Impact**: Performance optimization opportunity
   - **Action**: Can be addressed in future optimization phase

## Build Status
✅ **Build should now complete successfully**
✅ **All critical errors resolved**
✅ **Google Search Console verification file added**
✅ **Google Analytics integration ready**

## Next Steps After Successful Build

1. **Verify deployment** at https://www.weekod.in/
2. **Test Google Search Console verification**
3. **Add Google Analytics Measurement ID** to environment variables
4. **Initialize blog database** using `/api/blog/init` endpoint
5. **Test blog functionality** on production

## Performance Optimization Opportunities

### Future Image Optimization
Consider replacing `<img>` tags with Next.js `<Image />` component in:
- Navigation components (logo)
- Blog components (featured images, author avatars)
- Portfolio and service pages
- Footer component

### Benefits of Next.js Image Component
- Automatic image optimization
- Lazy loading
- Responsive image sizing
- Better Core Web Vitals scores
- Reduced bandwidth usage

## Database Initialization

After successful deployment, initialize the blog database:

```bash
# Development
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/blog/init

# Production
curl -X POST https://www.weekod.in/api/blog/init
```

This will populate the database with sample blog posts and categories for testing.
